Create split-button.mdx (#3289)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: site/docs/patterns/split-button.mdx

A split button enables users to perform a main action and access relevant, supplementary actions inside a menu. 

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-hero-shot.png"
  alt="Example showing a split button."
  border
/>

## When to use

Use the pattern for actions with multiple associated commands. Users are able to immediately perform the default action and access supplementary actions, which include more specific or less commonly-used actions.

For example, a paste-focused split button could include: 
- **Default action:** Paste.
- **Supplementary actions:** Keep source formatting, Match destination formatting, Paste text only.

## How to build

### Anatomy

A split button contains:

1. **Main action:** the default action a user can take.
2. **Arrow button:** contains a chevron-down icon and triggers the menu.
3. **Supplementary actions:** lower priority actions displayed in a menu. 

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-anatomy.png"
  alt="Split button showing supplementary actions."
  border
/>

### Layout

- Use the segmented button group component as the base structure of the split button.
- Use the chevron-down icon for the menu trigger.

> - Use a menu component to display supplementary actions for users to take.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a menu component to display supplementary actions for users to take. Set the component's `placement` prop to "bottom-end" without quotation marks.
```

---
title: Split button
layout: DetailPattern
aliases:
  - /salt/patterns/split-button
data:
  components: ["Button", "Menu", "Segmented Button Group", "Tooltip"]
---

A Split Button enables users to perform a main action and have access to relevant, supplementary actions displayed inside the menu. 

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-hero-shot.png"
  alt="Example showing a split button."
  border
/>

## When to use

Use the pattern when providing users with an action that has multiple commands associated with it. Users are able to immediately action the default command and access the supplementary actions, which include more specific or less commonly-used actions.

> For example, “Paste” functionality commands could be split as follows: 

Reviewer 2: We should re-word this, a paste action would be the single action rather then the whole split button

> For example, “Paste” functionality commands could be split as follows: 

Reviewer: how about the above instead?

- Default command: Paste 

> - Alternative commands: Keep source formatting, Match formatting, Paste special...

Reviewer 2: Paste special is taken from Word and ends with an ellipsis because it requires user input

> - Alternative commands: Keep source formatting, Match formatting, Paste special...

Reviewer 2: @yunjungyeh Alternative actions should be supplementary actions

> - Alternative commands: Keep source formatting, Match formatting, Paste special...

Reviewer: i'm not sure we need an ellipsis here as we're describing the actions rather than giving the exact microcopy. perhaps we could just use "paste text only" instead as we're missing it and it's another appropriate function.

> - Alternative commands: Keep source formatting, Match formatting, Paste special...

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, We still need to change Alternative actions to Supplementary actions to match how we refer to it in the anatomy

> - Default command: Paste 
> - Alternative commands: Keep source formatting, Match formatting, Paste special...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Default action:** Paste.
- **Supplementary actions:** Keep source formatting, Match formatting, Paste text only.
```

## How to build

### Anatomy

A split button contains:

1. *Main action:* the default action a user can take.
2. *Arrow button:* contains a chevron-down icon and triggers the menu.
3. *Supplementary actions:* lower priority actions displayed in menu. 

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-anatomy.png"
  alt="Split button showing supplementary actions."
  border
/>

### Layout

- Use the segmented button group component as the base structure of the split button.
- Use the chevron-down icon for the menu trigger.
- Use a menu component to display supplementary actions for users to take.

> - By default, the menu is displayed bottom-end of the arrow button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

By default, the menu displays below the arrow button.
```

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-layout.png"
  alt="layout"
  border
/>

> <ExampleContainer type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">
> - By default, the menu is displayed bottom-end of the arrow button.
> </ExampleContainer>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
as it's not advice for the user, i think we can leave it out of best practices

Reviewer 2: I think "default" is weird, it's something the developer will have to set in code but still not sure if it's a best practise I guess

Reviewer: ah, in that case then i can see why we would call it a best practice

Reviewer 2: Are you happy keeping it but rewording it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<ExampleContainer type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">
Display the menu below the arrow button.
</ExampleContainer>
```
how about this? if there's any more detail we can add about what the reader needs to do we can include. also we can delete the line above

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-affordance.png"
  alt="Example showing CTA, Primary and Secondary variants of a split button."
  caption="Example showing CTA, Primary and Secondary variants of a split button."
  border
/>

<ExampleContainer type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">
- Don’t mix the button variants in the same split button.
</ExampleContainer>

## Multiple actions

You can have multiple main actions if they have the same importance/priority.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-multiple-actions.png"
  alt="Multiple actions."
  border
  caption="Example showing two main actions, Copy and Paste in a split button."
/>

## Icon-only

The main action is represented by an icon-only button to minimize the width of the entire split button.

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-icon-only.png"
  alt="Icon only."
  border
  caption="Example showing the main action represented by an icon with a Tooltip."
/>

<ExampleContainer type="positive" customPillText="Best practices">

> - Avoid using an icon-only split button if the proposed icons are likely to be unfamiliar to your target audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid using an icon-only split button if your target audience is unlikely to recognize the proposed icons.
```

> - Use a textual label if your main action is high priority—so that it’s less likely to be overlooked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a textual label if your main action is high priority. This ensures users are more likely to see it.
```

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-hero-shot.png"
  alt="Example showing a split button."
  border
/>

## When to use

Use the pattern for actions with multiple associated commands. Users are able to immediately perform the default action and access supplementary actions, which include more specific or less commonly-used actions.

For example, a paste-focused split button could include: 
- Default command: Paste 
- Alternative commands: Keep source formatting, Match formatting, Paste special...

## How to build

### Anatomy

A split button contains:

1. **Main action:** the default action a user can take.
2. **Arrow button:** contains a chevron-down icon and triggers the menu.
3. **Supplementary actions:** lower priority actions displayed in a menu. 

<Diagram
  src="/img/patterns/split-button/split-button-anatomy.png"
  alt="Split button showing supplementary actions."
  border
/>

### Layout

- Use the segmented button group component as the base structure of the split button.
- Use the chevron-down icon for the menu trigger.
- Use a menu component to display supplementary actions for users to take.

> 
> By default, the menu displays below the arrow button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
as per conversation below this isn't by default but something a reader should do
